Update changelog (#3580)
GenericMappingTools/gmt: doc/rst/source/changes.rst

Changelog
=========

New Features in GMT 6.1
=======================

GMT 6.1 may be a minor revision to 6.0 but packs quite a punch. For general
changes, we mention

 #. Updated remote global data sets: Earth relief, land/ocean masks, and day/night imagery. The larger
    grid files (5x5 arc minutes and smaller resolutions) are now tiled and faster to download.

>  #. Add MVT (Mapbox Vector Tile) as another GDAL URL dataset.

Reviewer: Better remove this one. We do nothing with the vector tiles yet. It was just to anticipate future use.

Author: done

    tick_extend,tick_normal,lat_parallel*) instead of bit-sum for **MAP_ANNOT_OBLIQUE**.
 #. Let the macOS bundle be built with OpenMP support to accelerate some computational modules.
 #. Let GMT recognize MATLAB headers/comments via multiple **IO_HEADER_MARKER** characters.
 #. Let an explicitly signed grid cross size in **GMTCASE_MAP_GRID_CROSS_SIZE_PRIMARY** or
    **MAP_GRID_CROSS_SIZE_SECONDARY** mean centered (if positive) or asymmetrical (if negative) grid ticks.
 #. Add modifier **+v** for a *vertical* oblique Equator in -JO [horizontal].
 #. New **-B** modifier **+i** for placing internal frame annotations
 #. New **-B** modifier **+f** to turn on fancy geographic annotations.
 #. New polar projection (**-JP**) modifiers  (**+f**\|\ **r**\|\ **t**\|\ **z**) adds new 
    capabilities for annotating azimuths, depths or radii.
 #. Revise verbosity default levels and their names and abbreviations.
 #. Add Web-Mercator as new sphere that can be selected.
 #. Explore adding long-format GMT options (e.g., **--region**\ =\ *w/e/s/n*).
 #. Allow both **-i** and **-o** to specify an open-ended list of columns to end of record.

>  #. API improvements to support the GMT/MEX, pyGMT, and GMT.jl environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 #. API improvements to support the GMT/MEX, PyGMT, and GMT.jl environments.
```

Author: done

#. :doc:`gmtmath`: New operators **RGB2HSV** and **HSV2RGB** for color manipulation.
#. :doc:`gmtregress`: Let **-A** also be used to limit angles considered for LMS regressions.
#. :doc:`gmtspatial`: New directive **-Sb** computes buffers around lines (via the optional GEOS library).
#. :doc:`gmtvector`: Add vector operator **-Tt** that translates points by given distance in given direction.
#. :doc:`grd2kml`: New option **-W** for adding contour overlays. Also rebuilt for global grids as well as
   to write PNG or JPG directly (depending on transparency) without going via *PostScript* conversion (only
   required if **-W** is used).
#. :doc:`grdcontour`: Better handling of contour file that can now have unique angles and pens per contour.
#. :doc:`grdconvert`: Enable scaling/translation services on output with **-Z**.
#. :doc:`grdfill`: Implement minimum-curvature spline infill with **-As**.
#. :doc:`grdfilter`: Let filter width optionally be a grid with variable widths.
#. :doc:`grdgradient`: Add support for ambient light in **-N**, as in **-E**, and therefore via **-I**
   in :doc:`grdimage` and :doc:`grdview`.

> #. :doc:`grdinfo`: Now **-C** also appends registration as last output column (0 = gridline, 1 = pixel registration).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. :doc:`grdinfo`: Now **-C** also appends registration and gtype as last two output columns (0 = gridline, 1 = pixel registration; 0=Cartesian, 1=geographic).
```

Author: done

#. :doc:`grdmath`: New operators **DAYNIGHT** (for day/night terminator), **BLEND** (blend two grids using the weights
   from a third), **DOT** (dot product), and **RGB2HSV**, and **HSV2RGB** for color manipulations.
#. :doc:`grdtrack`: Determine central peak in all crossections with **-F** (requires **-C**); let **-E+c** continue
   a track if next line is a direct continuation of previous line.
#. :doc:`pscontour`: Better handling of contour file that can now have unique angles and pens per contour.
#. :doc:`movie`: Add **-E** for an optional title sequence (with or without fading in/out), **-K** for fade in and
   fade out for main animation sequence, **-Sb** and **-Sf** can now take a PostScript layer instead of a script,
   and **-P** for adding one of six progress indicators.

> #. :doc:`sample1d`: Adds a smoothing cubic spline via **-Fs**\ *p* (for a fit parameter *p*), with optional weights (**-W**).

Reviewer: Add entry for nearneighbor -Nn saying that it calls the GDALʻs nearest neighbor algorithm

Author: done
